# CSS Theory 4 - Types of Boxes

Different types of boxes that exist in the box model.

## Block level boxes Vs. Inline level boxes

**_h2_**
This element occupies all the space it can occupy - it gose all the way from left side to the right side. This is true for the header, article, header elements. These are box level boxes/elements. These occupy all the space they can and create line breaks after them. They can't be put side by side withn another.

**_strong_**
This element only occupies exactly the space where its content actually is. Same is true for the author image that's above the paragraph element. These are called inline boxes.

## Comparison

Comparing blcok-level boxes with inline boxes (elements).

### Block level elements

1. Elements are formatted visually as blocks.
2. Elements occupy 100% of parent element's width, no matter the content.
   These are formatted as blocks - blocks of content which occupies 100%.
3. elements are stacked vertically by default, one after another.
4. The box-model applies as showed earlier (the same not true for inline elements).
5. By default most html elements are block level elements: body, main, header, footer, section, nave, aside, div, h1-h6, p, ul, ol, li, etc. They create block level boxes.
6. With CSS we can change from inline boxes to block level boxes using the display property:

```css
display: block;
```

### Inline elements

1. Occupies only the space neccessariy for its content.
2. Causes no line-breaks after or before the element.
3. Box model applies in a different way: the height and widths properties do not appy/don't have any effect.
4. Paddings and margins are applied only horizontally (left and right not top and bottom).
5. Examples: these inline elements create inline boxes: strong, em, a (anchor/links), img, button, etc.
6. With CSS we can chnange any block level element to inline element:

```css
display: inline;
```

## The Code Magazine

Continue developing this project.

1. format the nav links.
   The anchor element is an inline element that do not create any vertial space. However, the box model will show the space. The same is true for padding. We can change these into block level elements using the display property.
2. As a test, change the list items to inline elements.
3. Makes more sense to change a block level element to an inline-block element which is a mix of inline and block level.

| BLOCK-LEVEL BOXES                          | INLINE BOXES                                                 | INLINE-BLOCK BOXES                                                                |
| ------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| -> Elements formatted visually as blocks.  | -> OCCUPIES ONLY CONTENT'S SPACE.                            | -> Looks like inline from the outside, behaves like block-level on the inside.    |
| -> 100% of parent's width.                 | -> Causes no line-breaks                                     | -> Occupies only content's space.                                                 |
| -> Vertically, one after another.          | -> Box model is different: heights and widths do not apply.  | -> Causes no line-breaks.                                                         |
| -> Box-model applies as showed.            | -> Paddings and margins only horizonal (left and right).     | -> Box-model applies as showed.                                                   |
| ------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

INLINE-BLOCK BOXES:

```css
display: inline-block;
```

Behaves like block-level on the inside. This means the box model applies just as it does for block level boxes - we can still set height and width, and can still use margins and paddings. This combines best of both worlds. We just need to set the display property to inline-block in css file. Use this on our nav links.

### inline-block on nav links

Display is set to inline-block to make the margin-top work.
The last anchor shouldn't have a margin-right. To remove that we use the a:link pseudo class with the last-child pseudo class and then set the last-child to 0.

#### Images: inline-block boxes

Images are inline elements but they do beheave like inline-block elements. This means when we give an image a margin of 100px it will create vertial space as well as horizonal space. Same is true that we can set width and height for this element.

### Take away:

Most of the time we would just use the default display settings and use the predefined box tye as by default they make a lot of sense. However, we can use display set to block to change a small inline element to occupy an entire line, which sometime we do need. Sometime the other way round.
