# 132 Responding to Small Latops

Always include this line of code!

```html
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" />

<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/queries.css" />
```

Now start to write our media queries (MD). For that we need our breakpoints - the width that we want to set our media queries. Use the two methodologies from preview lecture.

looking where our design breaks, and also taking into accoount a common screen width ranges.

We shouldn't use pixels in layouts, media queries as using pixels will not adjust to user's font size setting in the browser and also not to the user's zoom level. This is why in general.css -> we set font-size to a % not px.

```css
html {
  /* font-size: 10px; */
  /* 10px / 16px = 0.625 = 62.5% */
  /* Percentage of user's browser font-size setting */
  font-size: 62.5%;
}
```

So we should now use rem instead of pixels. However, there is an important particularity of these responsive units in media queries, which is the fact that they do not respond to this font-size setting in the HTML. This means in media queries 1rem is not 10px, instead 1rem will always be the defualt font-size browser setting. In short, rem and em do NOT depend on html font-size in media queries. Instead we assume that 1rem = 1em = 16px.

- rem is the route font-size. Has some bugs in some browsers when used in media queries. so we use em instead.
- em is the current font-size. This works in same way as rem but don't have bugs in any browsers.

In browser: 1366 x 1234:
We want MD that is between 1300 and 1350. To convert that to em, we divide that by 16px:

1350/16 = 84,375 -> 84em

GENERAL REUSABLE COMPONENTS

```CSS
@media (max-width: 84em) {

}
```

/**********\*\*\*\***********\***********\*\*\*\***********/
/_ BELOW 1344px (Smaller desktops) _/
/**********\*\*\*\***********\***********\*\*\*\***********/

@media (max-width: 84em) {

}

Now we have our first MD and our first breakpoint, first css rule in this MQ.

Use the same media query and change the gallery from 3 to 2 columns:

```css
@media (max-width: 84em) {
  .hero {
    max-width: 120rem;
  }
  .heading-primary {
    font-size: 4.4rem;
  }
  .gallery {
    grid-template-columns: repeat(2, 1fr);
  }
}
```

Now too much whitespace of top-left of the Testimonial section but we don't want to write a MQ for every single screen size.
