# 26 Class and ID Selectors

**Style elements using classes and ID's**
Give an elements a names (in html file or React file etc), then use those names to select the element in css and style them. To do this we use classes and ID's.

## The ID attribute

An ID is a special html attribute we use to style an element that is unique to that webpage.

### Task 01 - using ID's

Select and style only paragraphs that is inside of header, that is inside of article.

The problem with this is it encodes the html structure into our css selector, which is NOT a good idea. Instead we name the p element and give it an ID so we can avoid writing a long selector like this:

```css
article header p {
  font-style: italic;
}
```

Use an ID to style the p element that is inside of the header, and inside of the article:

```html
<p id="author">
  Posted <strong>by Laura Jones</strong> on Monday, June 21st 2027
</p>
```

Now in our css file we can use the hash (#) selector which is the oporator for an ID. Then set our font-style to italic.

```css
#author {
  font-style: italic;
}
```

```css
#copyright {
  font-size: 16px;
}
```

## The Class attribute

Another way to select an element in css and style it. We can give an html element a name then in our css file we write the selector by using that name and style the element.

We are not allow to repeat ID names/we can only use each ID name only once on each webpage. If we need to use an ID multiple times then we use a class attribute for that.

### Task 02 - using classes

Style the three p elements within the Related Posts section using the class attribute and give that class a name of: related-author
If our class name contains multiple words then we use a dash to separate the words as this is the convention.

```html
<p class="related-author">By Jonas Schmedtmann</p>
```

In css the class selector is just a period. We can use the font-weight property to make the font bold.

```css
related-author {
  font-size: 18px;
  font-weight: bold;
}
```

I have to use the GoLive on bottom-right blue bar of Code IDE to run this webpage and I can see sometimes this works as in sometimes it shows the the copy text in sans-serif font-family rather than double click on the index.html file within file explorer. I don't know why this is?

Live server:
Port: http://127.0.0.1:5500/

Code Pen:
https://codepen.io/vantsang888/pen/oNyLqYr

I now have the webpage working as I can see it is using the sans-serif font-family. To solve my problem I had changed the link element to:

```html
<link rel="stylesheet" href="./style.css" />
```

Classes or IDs?
In the real-world we always use classes so we are prepared for the future. However, according to the W3C Standards, elements such as <h1> can only be used once on a page and to style this element we use an ID rather than a class. This is what I will go with. In fact, I would use an ID for the footer element as well as we only ever have one footer element of a webpage or software app.

For the Related posts, in the future we may want another one in the side bar and one in the footer elements. Therefore, we would use the related class again two other times. I agree with this.
