03-CSS-Fundamentals/notes/L26.md, before:

# 26 Class and ID Selectors

**Style elements using classes and ID's**
Give an elements a names (in html file or React file etc), then use those names to select the element in css and style them. To do this we use classes and ID's.

## The ID attribute

An ID is a special html attribute we use to style an element that is unique to that webpage.

### Task 01 - using ID's

Select and style only paragraphs that is inside of header, that is inside of article.

The problem with this is it encodes the html structure into our css selector, which is NOT a good idea. Instead we name the p element and give it an ID so we can avoid writing a long selector like this:

```css
article header p {
  font-style: italic;
}
```

Use an ID to style the p element that is inside of the header, and inside of the article:

```html
<p id="author">
  Posted <strong>by Laura Jones</strong> on Monday, June 21st 2027
</p>
```

Now in our css file we can use the hash (#) selector which is the oporator for an ID. Then set our font-style to italic.

```css
#author {
  font-style: italic;
}
```

```css
#copyright {
  font-size: 16px;
}
```

## The Class attribute

Another way to select an element in css and style it. We can give an html element a name then in our css file we write the selector by using that name and style the element.

We are not allow to repeat ID names/we can only use each ID name only once on each webpage. If we need to use an ID multiple times then we use a class attribute for that.

### Task 02 - using classes

Style the three p elements within the Related Posts section using the class attribute and give that class a name of: related-author
If our class name contains multiple words then we use a dash to separate the words as this is the convention.

```html
<p class="related-author">By Jonas Schmedtmann</p>
```

In css the class selector is just a period. We can use the font-weight property to make the font bold.

```css
related-author {
  font-size: 18px;
  font-weight: bold;
}
```

8:50: the font-family property on Ln 11 is not working as the font for those elements are still serif rather than san-serif.

Commit message:

Made more progress on lecture 26 but blocked on styling li to none

03-CSS-Fundamentals/notes/L26.md, after:

# 26 Class and ID Selectors

**Style elements using classes and ID's**
Give an elements a names (in html file or React file etc), then use those names to select the element in css and style them. To do this we use classes and ID's.

## The ID attribute

An ID is a special html attribute we use to style an element that is unique to that webpage.

### Task 01 - using ID's

Select and style only paragraphs that is inside of header, that is inside of article.

The problem with this is it encodes the html structure into our css selector, which is NOT a good idea. Instead we name the p element and give it an ID so we can avoid writing a long selector like this:

```css
article header p {
  font-style: italic;
}
```

Use an ID to style the p element that is inside of the header, and inside of the article:

```html
<p id="author">
  Posted <strong>by Laura Jones</strong> on Monday, June 21st 2027
</p>
```

Now in our css file we can use the hash (#) selector which is the oporator for an ID. Then set our font-style to italic.

```css
#author {
  font-style: italic;
}
```

```css
#copyright {
  font-size: 16px;
}
```

## The Class attribute

Another way to select an element in css and style it. We can give an html element a name then in our css file we write the selector by using that name and style the element.

We are not allow to repeat ID names/we can only use each ID name only once on each webpage. If we need to use an ID multiple times then we use a class attribute for that.

### Task 02 - using classes

Style the three p elements within the Related Posts section using the class attribute and give that class a name of: related-author
If our class name contains multiple words then we use a dash to separate the words as this is the convention.

```html
<p class="related-author">By Jonas Schmedtmann</p>
```

In css the class selector is just a period. We can use the font-weight property to make the font bold.

```css
related-author {
  font-size: 18px;
  font-weight: bold;
}
```

I have to use the GoLive on bottom-right blue bar of Code IDE to run this webpage and I can see sometimes this works as in sometimes it shows the the copy text in sans-serif font-family rather than double click on the index.html file within file explorer. I don't know why this is?

Live server:
Port: http://127.0.0.1:5500/

Code Pen:
https://codepen.io/vantsang888/pen/oNyLqYr

Duration 09:31 blocked as the UI is not showing that I have used a class of related to remove the bullet point. However my code works on Code Pen: https://codepen.io/vantsang888/pen/oNyLqYr
