# Working with Colors

How to represent colors using code.

1. The more tradition model is the RGB model where any color can be represented by a combination of RED, GREEN and BLUE. The diagram is three circles overlapping each other and with letter R, G, B.

2. Each of the 3 base colors can take a value between 0 and 255, which leads to 16.8 million different colors.

RED: 0 -> 255
GREEN: 0 -> 255
BLUE: 0 -> 255

## Defining colors in CSS code

1. RGB / RGBA NOTATION.
2. HEXADECIMAL NOTATION.

3. RGB / RGBA NOTATION:

-> Regular RGB model:
Use the rgb fnc in css: rgb(0, 255, 255)
This is the cyan color -> max GREEN & BLUE.
More real-world example is this orange color: rgb(244, 179, 63)

-> RGB with transparency ("alpha")

```css
rgb(0, 255, 255, 0.3)
```

RGB with transparency -> cyan.

-> Color Picker
In Code we can use the color picker to generate a color.

2. HEXADECIMAL NOTATION:

-> This is more used in css.
Instead of using a scale from 0 to 255, we go from 0 to ff (255 in hexadecimal numbers). In hexadecimal natiation we write like this:

```css
#00ffff
#f4b33f
```

-> Shorthand, when all colors are identical pairs.

```css
#0ff
```

### In Practice

In practice we mostly use hexadecimal colors, and rgba when we need transparency.

## Shades of Grey

a special type of color that we need all the time in css.

In the RGB model, when the 3 colors in the three channels are exactly the same, what we get is a gray color. When all value are at 0 we get black and when all are at max 255, we get white.

rgb(0, 0, 0) / #000000 / #000

rgb(255, 255, 255) / #ffffff / #fff

There are many grey colors in between that we can use such as rgb(69, 69, 69) / #444444 / #444 -> this one is used a lot for text color. Another example, has all value of 183 and can be represented as B7B7B7: rgb(183, 183, 183) / #b7b7b7

## CSS Properties where we can use colors in practice

Propertis that require a color value.

1. the color property:

```css
color: #1098ad;
```

or we can use the color picker in VSCode.
When we have the same two definition, it will use the last one/the latest one.

### Task 01

Set the color of h1, h2, h3 to blue color.
Define a list to the selectors that we want to it to apply to:

```css
h1,
h2,
h3 {
  color: #1098ad;
}
```

## Task 02

The rest of the text, change it to the dark grey.

```css
h1,
h2,
h3,
h4,
p,
li {
  font-family: sans-serif;
  color: #444;
}
```

The long hand is: #444444

2. The background-color property.

Give our main page header a slight gray background color to distinguish it a bit from rest of the content.
Use a class name in the header element called it: main-header

```css
.main-header {
  background-color: #f7f7f7;
}
```

3. Border color property:

Give a border color (to top and bottom) to our RELATED POSTS.
First find the element in the html file -> its the <aside>. Then go to the css file and write the element selector.
This property is a special property as it accepts multiple values. We want the width to be 5px, the style to be solid, and the color to be the same blue.

```css
aside {
  background-color: #f7f7f7;
  border-top: 5px solid #1098ad;
  border-bottom: 5px solid #1098ad;
}
```

A pecial property as we use one property for defining three different properties, all on one run.

3. Predefind color names:

We can use predefined color names:

```css
body {
  background-color: blue;
}
```
