# Pseudo-classes

Working with pseudo-classes. This is all about matching the existing html structure.

### Task 01: style the first list item:

Style only the first li from x2 unordered lists.

### Option 01:

1. in the html <li> write a class name of: first-li
2. Then in the css use the class name and write a element selector. In the write the style/declaration to make the text cold.
3. save both files and test in the UI by click on the GoLive btn on the bottom blue bar -> Port: 5500.

```html
<ol>
  <li class="first-li">The opening tag</li>
  <li>The closing tag</li>
  <li>The actual element</li>
</ol>
```

```css
.first-li {
  font-weight: bold;
}
```

### Option 02:

We can do better than this:
Instead of doing this manually, we can have css to figure out which is the first list item inside of a container. To do this we change the selector to add a pseudo-class.
Keep the class name in the html, but change the style declaration in the css.
This pseudo-class selector will select all the first child elements of its parent elements of the whole html file.

```css
li:first-child {
  font-weight: bold;
}
```

```css
li:last-child {
  font-style: italic;
}
```

Target a specific child such as the second child and change the text color to red. To do this use the nth-child() that is built in to css.
Inside of parenthises we can write a keyword such as: odd. Then evey other li will be red. Can do the same for: even. This is often used for alternating background colours.

```css
li:nth-child(2) {
  color: red;
}
```

## Task 02: select the first paragraph element inside of the article.

```html
<p id="author">
  Posted <strong>by Laura Jones</strong> on Monday, June 21st 2027
</p>
```

In css we need to style the decendant of the article element which is the p element. This is not how the first child pseudo-class actually works.

```css
article p:first-child {
  color: red;
}
```

The first-child of article is not the paragraph element but the header element.
