# 38 Challenge 2

Continue with the Converse trainers advert so that it is the same as this final result we want to achieve: [S3 - Challenge 2 - by Jonas the instructor](https://codepen.io/jonasschmedtmann/pen/oNBJQOr/bc1ffc43d2c2d6dfb311d99f974ec991)

1. Centre the heading and exband the grey background.
2. Do a global reset then add custom spacing using padding and margin such as the list items.
3. Centre the button text.

## Global reset:

Write a Universal Selector at the every top of the css file and define margin and padding to 0.

## Resize the article

Give the article element the width of 825px.
Centre this article in the browser by writing class of container and centre that in css. In our case the container is the product class. This is why we added the width property there. It is here we set the left and right margins, and auto for top and bottom.

## Product title

Create some space inside of the product title using padding property.

### Shipping text

Create space shipping text and the paragraphic text below it. For this use margin bottom and value of 20px.

### h3 Product details

Define space below this element using margin bottom.

### More info link

To add space after the more-info link. Can't add margins to small elements such as links. Therefore, add margin top to the details-title class which is the h3 element.

### Bullet lists

They are outside of container element. Move them inside by targeting the details-list class and use margin left of 20px. Also add space between each list item. Therefore target the unordered list element

```html
<ul class="details-list"></ul>
```

In css, write a decendant selector and then style each list items inside of this selector. So we have an element inside of the class selector.

```css
.details-list li {
  margin-bottom: 10px;
}
```

### Button

For the button text, add some space around it using padding and make it stretch from left to right using the width property so the text occupies the entire parent element which is the article element. Create a border at the top of the button which will user will see when they hover over the button.
