# CSS Theory 3: The CSS Box Model

The CSS Box Model defines how elements are displayed on a webpage and how they are sized. So in box model each element on a webpage can be seen as a rectangular box, and each box can have content, a border, and space inside and outside of it. Now we need to define all of the pieces of the box model one by once. Starting with the content.

## Breakdown

A breakdown of what the CSS Box Model includes.

**_The Content_**
This could be text, images etc and using css properties we can specify both the heigh and the width of the content area.

**_The Border_**
A line around the element, still inside of the element. Border is still inside the element.

**_The Padding_**
The invisible white space that we can create around the elements content, still inside of the element. Essentially its the empty space we can create inside of an element.

**_The Margin_**
The difference is margin creates empty space around the element, so outside of the element. We use margin to create space between elements on our page by specifying the margin property on one of the two elements.

The first 3 of the above is the visible part of an element we can see on a page. Then around all that we can add some margin inorder to create space between elements. All four are optional as we don't have to specify or define any of them if we don't want to.

**_The Fill Area_**
The content is inside of the element but the fill area gets filled with background color or backfround image of an element.

We can use a framed picture on a wall as an example of the CSS Box Model.
We can calculate the exact size of an element based on the content, the border and the padding.

We can define the width and height of the content area, but if we dont the box model will apply them based on the content but that is not the final size of them element as the border and padding is also taken into account. So the final element width is defined by the left border + left padding + width + right padding + right border. The final element height is defined by the top border + top padding + height + bottom padding + bottom border. This way of calculating the width and height is just the default behavior of the box model.
