# Lecture 23: Inline, Internal and External CSS

There are different ways to write css.

## 3 Types of CSS

Inline css is writing css inside of the element. However should never be used as not professional. Just be aware of it as I may come across it one day. Example:

```html
<header>
  <h1 style="color: blue">The Code Magazine</h1>
</header>
```

Internal CSS. In the head tag within the our index.html file, write a <style></style> tag. We decouple the style from the html element.
We call internal csss separation of concern. However, if we have many lines of css code such as 500 lines then internal css is not practical and will
blot out our html file and make it difficult to navigate around. Therefore, this is only for when we are developing something small and fast. This is when we need External CSS instead of Internal CSS.

```html
<head>
  <style>
    h1 {
      color: blue;
    }
  </style>
</head>
```

External CSS. This is where we create a new file and name it anything we like. By convention we name it: style.css.
So now we can move the css rule from the head of the html file and past it in our new style.css file. So now this css code is External to the html file.
The html and css files do not auto get linked so we need to tell our html file that there is a css file we want to use to style the html - link them together.
We do this in the html head tag as this is where all the info about the page gose. For this we use the <link> element. Note: this element is NOT used to create
a hyperlink as that is the anchor element. So the link element only purpose is to connect the html file to the css file. Inside this element we need to specify
the path to the css file. Specify the rel attribute to let the browser know that this is a stylesheet.

### which is the best?

Generally speaking the External CSS is the best but this also depends on the project requirements we are working within.
