# 25 Combining Selectors

If all heading uses same font family then create a list of selectors in order to select multiple elments then apply the font family to that list. So when we need to change
the font then we only need to do it in one place.

## font family example

So far we have same font-family property for all of our elements such as the h3 and li elements. So all six of our css rules all have font-family set to san serif. Repeating ourself in all those selectors is not best practice as we are repeating ourselves. Therefore, we can **combin all six of those selectors into one**. Therefore, in the future when we need to change the font family for all those selectors we only need to do it **once in one place** only.

### How?

In order to select multiple elements, creatre a list of selectors, then apply this font-family to that list.
Then we can remove all the font-family from each of the other declaration blocks.

```css
h1,
h2,
h3,
p,
li {
  font-family: sans-serif;
}
```

## Footer element

We need the footer content to also use the styles within the combined selectors. Therefore, we now need to wrap the content in the footer within a p element within the html file. But now the text in footer is 22px but normally text here is for secondary info. Therefore, we need to make this text smaller than other paragraph text. To do this we can combin selectors in another way:

**the decendent selector**

Another way to combin a list of selectors - the decendent selector. Select all p elements inside of the footer element.
Now the p element (decentant selector) is the child element of the footer element.
Select all p elements that is inside of the footer elements.

```css
footer p {
  font-size: 16px;
}
```

**A nested decendant selector**
Style the p element inside of the header element to italic. The problem is that he have multiple header elments on our page and they also contain the p element as well. We can solve this problem as the p element we want to style to italic is inside of an article element and the other p element is not. Therefore, we can write a nested decendant selector. So we can have a decentant inside of a decentant. We only want to targe p elements that are inside of header than is inside of article.

However, this could make our css difficult to maintain in the future when we change our html code so its better to give elements names the
use these names to select them? This solution is called: class and ID selectors.

```css
article header p {
  font-size: italic;
}
```
