# Using Margins and Padding

Work on the main header element by defining the padding and margin to create some space between the h1 and the nav elements and around the outside of these elements, still within the element itself.

# Inspect the element

**_Padding_**
When we hover over the h1 we get the orange overlay which is the margin. The header itself, the green space, this is the padding which gose all around the inside of the box. In the Styles tab -> Box Model -> we can see the is 20px all arond (all 4 sides) the inside of the element. A shor hand is when we specify multiple values for one property. Example, for padding we can specify two values and the first value will always be the padding for top and bottom, the second value will be padding on the left and right side.
Task: define padding 20px for top and bottom, also 40px for left and right.

```css
.main-header {
  background-color: #f7f7f7;
  /* padding: 20px;
    padding-left: 40px;
    padding-right; */
  padding: 20px 40px;
}
```

**_Margin_**
Define margin to create spaces between elements.
Task: add some space between the list item elements.
Give the li selector a margin bottom of 10px.

```css
li {
  font-size: 20px;
  margin-bottom: 10px;
}
```

Usually for the last li we don't want any space so we need to remove the margin for the last li. To do this we write the last child psedo-class.

```css
li:last-child {
  margin-bottom: 0;
}
```

There is already a lot of spaces due to default paddings and margins that makes it difficult for us to style our page. We need to reset them to zero.Margin is not related to text so its not a property that gets inherinted from parent to child. We want margin appiled to every single element, so we use the universal selector.

```css
* {
  margin: 0;
  padding: 0;
}
```

Do this everytime we start a new project. Keep in mind this is extremely easy to overwrite. Now with the Universal selector in place we can define our custom spaces and layout.

For the aside element use padding top and bottom properties to apply some space using the short hand values.

```css
aside {
  background-color: #f7f7f7;
  border-top: 5px solid #1098ad;
  border-bottom: 5px solid #1098ad;
  padding: 50px 0px;
}
```

Task:
Define some space between the main header and the h2.
In the main-header selector, define the margin-bottom of 60px. Its common to use margin to create vertical space between elements. Try to stick with margin-bottom througout the website.
Do the same for h2. Do the same for the post header element. Same for the paragraph elements. Same with h3.
Define some space between the h3 and the p element above it. -> collapsing margins. Now this is our page nicely formatted in terms of padding and margin.

Summary:
To define space within an element use padding. To add space between elements or outside of an element use margin.
