# The 3 Ways of Building Layouts

There are 3 main ways to build layouts in css.

## What is layout?

- In web design and development the laoyout is the way text, imges and other conten is placed and arranged on a webpage.

- Its the layout that gives the page a visual structure, into which we place our content. The job of Frontend Developers is to build layouts.

- Building a layout: arranging page elements into a visual structure, instead of simply having them placed one after another (normal flow).

### Page Layout Vs. Component Layout

There are two types of loyouts. Page layout is what we having been talking about - laying out big pieces of content inside of a webpage or website. On the other hand each big element is made up of components and they themselves need layouts as they themselves are made out of small pieces of content, which also need to be arranged in some kind of way. So we can say: components themselves also have a layout. We build these in CSS.

#### Float Layouts

The first technique in building layouts is using Float Layouts or CSS Float.
This is the old way of building layouts of all sizes, using the float CSS property. Still used, but getting outdated fast as being replaced by newer technologies such as Flexbox and CSS Grid, but in some cases still being use in older websites. So we still need to know how they work in case we need to work with one.

#### Flexbox

Modern way of laying out elements in a 1-dimentional row without using floats. Perfect for compenent layouts.
My current project at work uses the Boostrap Grid System which is a powerful mobile-sirst flexbox grid to build layouts of all shapes and sizes thanks to a 12 column system, 5 default responsive tiers, SASS variables and mixins and dozens of predefined classes. https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.0/layout/grid/

#### CSS Grid

Another modern (the most modern) way for laying out element in a fully-fledged 2-dimensional grid. Perfect for big page layouts and complex components. This is what we should be using to build layouts today.

My current project at work uses CSS Grid as well:
demo-code > sass > style.css >

```css
.is-d-grid {
  display: grid;
}

.is-d-inline-grid {
  display: inline-grid;
}
```
