# Clearing Floats

In the previous lecture we created a problem that is the header element had collapsed its height as all of its child elements are now floated. To fix this we need to clear those floats.

## Techniques to clear floats

**_ An empty div element _**
The simplest way to do this (not the best way) is to add another element to the header element and then clear the floats from there. So after the nav element add a div element and give it a class of "clear". This is just an empty container.

```html
<div class="clear"></div>
```

Select that div element with the clear class and clear the left and right floats.

```css
.clear {
  clear: both;
}
```

Now our problem is resolved. However, if we have a row with four columns so we need an element for each of these columns and we had them floated all side by side. Then in this situation the height of the row - the parent element of the four columns, would collapse. Then we would go in and create an empty div element like in each of those situations. This could happen 10 or 20 times on the page. So this solution would not be useful at all. Also we don't want to clutter up our HTML with all these empty div's -> bad practice. Keep in mind building float layouts is outdated.

**_ The clear fix hack_**
This is widely used in the CSS community to avoid having to use empty div's to clear floats.
How it works:
On the element with the collapsed height -> the header element, add a class of: clearfix. Then write the after pseudo element whcih will create a new element which will be the last child element of the container. So its the same as adding a div element as the after pseudo class will insert a brand new element at the very end of the container which in our case is the header element. So nwo inside this selector we can clear both. It only appears if we define something for the content property. So for the content property we assign it empty String which is fine. Pseudo after and before are inline elements but clearing float only works on block elements, so we set the display property to block.

```html
<header class="main-header">
  <h1>The Code Magazine</h1>
</header>
```

```css
.clearfix::after {
  clear: both;
  content: "";
  display: block;
}
```
